SPEAKER 0
Hi, everyone. Welcome to the lecture on Introduction to Image Processing. Today's lecture we're going to cover on using and processing binary image. Let's get started. In today's lecture, women a car will find different things in this that always connect the components for my what is mathematical morphology. I understand erosion and dilation as well as opening and closing. And get a better understanding of region of interest in structural eyes and mass. Let's begin with connected components. So what is connect the components? To understand from Connect the components, we need to first understand that this is mainly used for binary images. As you know, binary images consist of only two colours, black and white. So sometimes given that we having images said black and white, certain areas or still regions in that black and white image might need to be teamed up. So in doing so, we will implement a technique called connected components. Now if that picks up an object in our background, give each connected set of black so a different label. By doing this, we are doing the implementing connected components by either using a mean four or eight metres. Now, one downside of our connect to campus algorithm is that it is slow and any often bottleneck, however, is commonly used. Nonetheless, now how how do you perform it? So a sequential algorithm using formulas performs something like this, keep a separate output area for the labels and to process over the image. Now, in the first pass, you scan the image from top left to the bottom right. Look at the top and left neighbours already given labels. And can we assign either of the labels to the current pixel? Now, if the current pixel is a foreground, there are three cases they we need to consider. First, let it go to the top because the background. So these will assign the current pixel a new label. Not one off the left and top is background. The other is foreground. Now this is the second case whereby we assign the current pixel the foreground pixels label. And the last case is when left. It goes to the top because the foreground assigned current pixel one of the labels and note that the labels are equal in equivalent table. No statutory tax and merge between two previously separate components. Now, as mentioned earlier, there are two process involved in this algorithm. Now, for the second part, what happens? Consider each equivalent pair of labels. Set all instances of the higher label to the lower. Let's put this into a graphical representation for better understanding. For the first image which is on the top. You. These represents in the binary image. After the first scan, you can see that the binary image now has more white spaces and the one that is label is clearly seen as black. Okay. In the second scan, you're trying to replace the B and B by E so that you will be in the same region. So you can see now that all regions that's within the E has the same label, whereas region is far away from the E has different labels. It's at a, C and E. Now take note using the eight neighbours, mix that algorithm a little more complex and give slightly different results. Now connected compute components can compute features often apply tested components to process the underlining image. So applying a size a threshold t to the number of pixels in the component. A good example is the one shown at the bottom here for the one on the left. You can see that by applying T equals to ten, you can see that the input image, which has a lot of other unconnected regions, the rest of giving us a very nice clean representation of the AI object. Whereas if we include a higher threshold, you can see that more information on the AI disappears as you can see in it now from from having input, which is an AI, so that, you know, we have an input and this looks more like a one with this top and disappear. So shape is captured by measures like area boundary length. And this is by applying a given threshold value of t. Not easy to make. Note that many application specific features and tests exist by using these approach. Now what is mathematical morphology? No matter what the gun morphology is a branch of the image processing domain which treats images as set of pixels and uses set to execute operations to process it. Develop for binary images extended to brain level images. Elements offset x y coordinates of black or white pixels before an operation. By combining two sets a page of binary image to be processed a structure element similar to the mass in a commercial process, not something to make it clear here underlying mathematics is beyond the scope of this module. Instead, we will focus on how they will in practice and what they do. Let's have a look through the structuring elements. Now structure element is binary. Ms. K filter. Ms. But added define rather than waiting pixels, larger structuring elements produce more extreme effects. Very similar effect can be achieved by repeated operations using a smaller but similarly shaped structure, an element with larger structure element. It is quite common to use an approximation. This ship structuring element need not be square origin need not be in the centre. Now an example of a structuring element is the one that you see below here. As you can see that certain regions are left empty. So these will represent no changes. Okay, so region that you want to have change will be will be identified as a one. Of course the structure element will be overlaid over the binary image which has a value of zero and one and it will you any will perform the required action making set the region. Tina Okay. Now I look at how the political opposition operates. So there's two different functionality for morphology. One is called deletion and the other one is called erosion. Now what does dilation do? So dilation expands a foreground or background object using stretching element B As for erosion. It does the opposite. It shrinks a foreground or background object using shrunk the element b. Now the boundaries between the foreground background are often smoothed in the process. The amount and the way object growing shrink depend upon the choice of abstraction element. So if you were to look into structure elements, there's several different types. By using the correct one, you can perform the grow and shrink in a much more stronger. We know dilating eroding without specifying the original room makes no sense. Then trying to fill an image without specifying the filter something to they're not of if you're going to use a structure in. Now I dive in into Europe and Asia. So let's get a better understanding of the lesion. So for the detection process, you need a battery mixture daily. A set of points to be conceded, a structure element meaning that you require these two inputs to begin with. And the origin is the central element, which is the one in the metre here. Now how does the algorithm work? This tracking element is superimposed on each of the background pixels, such that origin of the structure element coincide with the input pixel position. Now, if any of the one pixel instruction element overlaps the same with the foreground and in the background, Pixel is also set to foreground. One thing to remember here is the structure element performs in the same manner as the mass filtering that we led in the previous lecture. It is super important over the binary image to obtain this effect. Now let's look at this in more detail by having an example down here. Now gradually enlarges of the boundaries of region, of foreground pixel. So most of what happens is that by moving dilation, you are actually extending the white pixel areas of the foreground. Pixel grow in size while holes within those region become smaller. So example of this is that this is the binary image. You perform a deletion process by using the sorting element we cover in the previous slide. You will get this as the output. So this is the result of deletion with a square tree by a restructuring element. Now this is more examples of how you can perform the dilution process. So you can use this process to also improve techniques. And of course, by using this, you'll be using a stretching element slightly modified by still a tree by tree, but not all of it having a one value where you can see that the diagonal side of the tree by tree is assigned a zero value. And by applying this alignment to the woods here, you can take note an example here the e e kind of improve the the the pixel and define the EAA making it a bit more clearer. Now how does a defection by delegation so that agent input image not Ron of Qantas he subcontract from original aegis we meet so pixel on the outside of the boundary so that is what we call the Aegis. So when you perform this subtraction on meaning, do you kind of minus in one image together it will give you an edge detector as what you can see on the right moves here. Now it's time to get your ocean. So similar to that issue, you still need to input. So you have a binary image to draw a set of points to be considered. Which is also known as a structuring element. And of course, as usual, the origin is the central point you wanted me to hit. Now, for this algorithm to work. Is how you should go. The traffic element is superimposed on each of the foreground pixels, such that origin of the structure element coincide with the input pixel position. If if any of the one pixel in a structuring element overlap to intersect the background, then the foreground pixel is also set to the background. So to make this easy to understand, just remember that erosion is the opposite of issue. But let's make some examples to help with your understanding. To begin with, we have let you put in the issue. He's in binary. Half of what happens when you plant a tree by tree shovelling element onto it. If you notice that the region has become multi-year. Okay. So erosion is the dual of deletion. Example eroding foreground pixel is equivalent to deleting the background pixel with the same structure. Something to look out for. If you're intending to use erosion dilution in the future. So you might ask, in what instances would one use? You know, counting objects, sells coins can be difficult. Any touch erosion can separate them. It's how you see in this manner. So you have the binary image. You apply the erosion technique and then you see you have a very nice division among the little cells in his image. Now, erosion can be used for detection to pixel on the inside of the boundary. Something to remember, like. Now this performs as a metric capturing element. So you kind of applying one the input, You mean here you're applying a dilation key and you're getting the resulting output. Same applies here. So for the bottom here. Okay, so set E here. The square stretching element, the dot is the centre. And of course you kind of perform that and you get a required output. Now, in this example, here you go from the erosion to the opposite. So again, it seems element with the dot in the middle. And then you're performing the erosion of E using cell. Not every bit that. And this dead erosional lesion. Let's have a look at opening and closing. To open diagnoses, actually combining dilation, erosion together. Now it's very rare to need only evolution, dilation, independent. And they work much more better together. So this example here kind of put that in perspective for any input you make here. We square off science one, three, five, seven, nine and 15 did this on this site. Image B here is actually the erosion result from A from E. You can see that the square kind of is quite hard to see. But erosion is performed with a square stacking element of once that it picks on the site. Now, how do you make these white boxes a bit more clearer? You perform dilation. So performing dilation onto. The image by using the scene, stuffing in your boxes now becomes much more bigger and easy to identify. Now as we get a better understanding of how we perform opening and closing, the opening or closing. These are the sequences that you need to follow for opening. First, you wrote it with B, then Bailey with B, G. It's more this controls illuminates protrusions. Now, as for closing, you first dilate with B and then A root. In that we smoothen sections of contours, fuses, narrow breaks and long tingles, eliminate small holes and fill gaps in context. Now, these operations are dual to each other. These operations can be applied multiple times, but have an effect only once. The first. Now let's see some results of opening. So in this image, yoga, because there's two kinds of cells, small black ones and larger grey ones. Trifling with a value of Tarantino's. B performs the opening here using elements of the. And this is what presents a C output here. Okay. So now we have the C output, and that is the result for our opening. How about closing? How do we move away from that? So taking in this image as our input to retain only the large holes, they say what we want. We can simply perform a closing with a DC instruction element with a diameter larger than the smaller halls, but smaller than the larger key. So you perform before you apply the stretching element onto this. These are what you get the result of the closing with a 22 pixel diameter. This. So that's how opening and closing works. Now let's look at region of interest in month. So why do we need our eyes in Mars? That's the question everybody wants to know. So what are examples of five or five processes, the whole image or section of the image or input? Now the tools we have become more powerful if we can apply them to selected Pixel and more powerful still. The selection can be automated. Okay. Now MATLAB would provide some tools to support reader interest processing. It's called our eye object creation modification, Migration and Refugee. And you can get more information about this particular meeting here. Now the Matt Letterbox Key supports filtering and painting off interactive automatically defined geometric eyes interacting drawing freehand. Our eyes and our eyes defined by any appropriate size binary image as well as defined by colour are all eye colour. Okay, so these are some of the functions that you can find in the MATLAB toolbox. Now remember one thing. The cost of ROI is very powerful. Quote can be written to allow the output of one process to determine where another is at play. And this is what makes image processing so useful. In summary, today we covered five different operation that is mainly infamously used to process the binary images, connected components, mathematical morphology, erosion, elation. Opening and closing and arrow eyes in mice. As always, if you have questions, please do reach out. For further clarification. With that brings us to the end of today's lecture. Next week, we get to talk about derivatives. And till then, take everybody. Stay safe and I'll see some kiss.
