SPEAKER 0
Hi, everyone. Welcome to today's lecture. Our first lecture together in this module. Introduction to Image Processing. Let's get started. So let's explore the learning outcomes of today's lecture. First, we then look at what is image processing? What are the model content that you're going to be learning in the coming weeks? Naomi will start out by identifying what are digital images. So let's debunk what is image processing. So you mean processing is a collection of topics or techniques related to the use of computers to perform the following actions on digital images? Actions such as acquire an image store, manipulate, model, analyse, interpret and also display. Now these are generic techniques that are applied to images from more sources. And the sources here refers to either a video sequence or even a high resolution image in the form of JPEG or PNG. Now, of course, not all solutions can be reached by using the techniques that we will cover in the coming weeks. So let us know what our limitations are. So there are four terms that are often used together and some are sometimes very, very confusing. Okay. Now, everybody tends to say image processing may have relation with image. This is computer vision in computer graphics. Now, let me be clear here. Image processing is an independent area and Zoom is different from image, and this is different from computer vision and of course this different from computer graphics. Not all share representation and aligning mathematics and some algorithm. Okay. That's the one thing that is similar to the form, but they all share different goals. Okay. Now this is an image processing module with a little of image analysis. Now let's look at one image and then this is it. So what's the difference? Now, when we talk about image and he says it's concerning with making quantitative measurements on images in the form of image acquisition is constrain. So that image measurements are a proxy here, meaning relatively different for some real world value. So this sits between image processing and computer vision. So in order for us to do this measurement, we need to apply some form of mathematical operation followed by Reinhardt techniques. So here's an example. So we have an object, We have an image. Now, in order for us to do this measurement, we need to perform that kind of like call algorithm onto the image so that we get the required measurement in that particular image. No. Image analysis provides solutions for specific application case. So it uses generic operation where possible, but takes an engineering more than scientific approach in solving this problem. So many areas apply this in some of these areas is very familiar and you all know as well. So areas such as medico, scientific, industrial, informal food, textile, manufacturing. So all of these tend to use techniques, the measurement, that image and this is famous for. Also, image processing is not computer vision. Now computer Vision aims to invert image formation and recover information about the view in either treaty shape motion identity. This is what makes computer vision different than image processing. Now, when it comes to computer vision, you will learn techniques that is built upon image processing techniques, and you put them together to solve a given problem and problems such as people walking, crossing a zebra crossing or a face recognition. So those are all called computer vision things. Again, one of the misconception of image processing is they think that is called the graphic. No, it's not okay. It is not computer graphics, not what is copied. The graphic computer graphic focuses on creating images from object models. So what type of processes goes into play? So here is something like lighting and shading, modelling volume, modelling curve and surface modelling, visibility, modelling. If you guys, if you get get the hint here, the key word here is modelling, game texture, synthesis, character animation, modelling, terrain, liquids, fire, smoke, cloth, hair for particular skin, etc. So computer graphics where you can see these most often you animation. The cartoons that we see and that uses a lot of computer graphics. Now just to be sure, image processing is not copied the graphics. So let's dive into image processing. Now, a few things to remember. When you want to do image processing, you need input. An image to this image can be a sequence or immediately even one image. You know, when you input the image, you perform some form of manipulation onto the image which will result in an output image. Now here is where key information will be seen and extract it for further processing and is more pleasing to the eyes as well. So the object that you want to identify in the image will be something that you want to get out from in terms of using image processing technique. So a good example here is a simple sample. We want to get the information in the white board, not to get the image in there on the right hand side from the left. You need to use certain techniques, and these are the techniques that you would normally get from either creating it from scratch or using built in libraries that is available out there in Python, MATLAB, and some of them even use famous toolkit. So the famous one everybody is familiar with will be the image processing toolkit. Python's Famous Pi L Library Open CV. So these are all building techniques. However, the fundamental purpose of improvising is those techniques. Basically, it's a black box. You can change its internal structure. You can only fit in what is required in the algorithm, and you get what is given to it. So if you want to change things that you want to change parameters, you want to change how it. You can. That is why by learning the fundamental of all these techniques on your own presents an opportunity for you to tweak what is out there for your own benefit and also based on the problem that you are focusing on. So not all problems can just use a built in library. And so sometimes you need to create a solution in order for you to get the required output from a given problem. So it's a tool kit, like I said earlier. Now you input the image. You perform a technique called detection. Now you perform line finding, followed by a distortion correction and also illumination correction. So in order for you to get the output results from the input image, look at how many processes that you need to go through. And that's what makes image processing so fun and really, really intriguing because as the process goes, you get a new result which should be fed into the next following technique, which would produce another result, all in the process of building up towards your finale output. An image. Now let's look at the primary themes that we are going to cover in this module. So the first thing is to introduce everyone to the fundamentals of digital image processing theory and practice by gaining practical experience in writing programs to manipulate digital images. Now, once you understand the theory, the method for creating the programs can be using any languages you can be using may lack, it can be using Python, it can be even using Java key. Now, the most important part of this topic is the laying down of the foundation for studying advanced topic in related fields. So fields like computer vision and computer graphics, for instance. Now let's find out more about the module content. So more secrets to be revealed now. No image processing. Three important things going to play a one image formation and the two acquisition. And last but not least, colour presentation. Not every image that you see is represented by pixels. Now, in this diagram, the pixels are shown as boxes. As you can see from the output digitised image diagram. Now each of that pixel will normally carry treaty form coloured triangles, one for rate, one for green and one for blue. Okay. From that treat colour channels. That's where we get the different colour representation with the most famous one being rescale, which normally is represented in one P, which is from white to black. So let's look into these two images. Now, a common low level position, although it will look like an image on your left. Now, of course, we're not going to take everything in the image, but you're going to look into the box, which is coloured, right. Okay. We're going to look into it. Now, in order for us to extract that information is we are looking at what we call pixel values. Pixel values represents the brightness, or some people call it the intensity and colour of the viewing object, but give no indication to what object you are looking at. So we have no understanding or knowing whether easy to book or monitor. Now these numbers refer to that's what it's called low level. Now redundancy at image compression efficiently easy MIDI represents image data for storage, minimising the displays and communication, minimising the network bandwidth. So of course you have different variations. So you see as you compress images, one thing that you can see is of course the size becomes smaller. But if you guys notice, the resolution becomes more blurred. Right? So the famous compression that you are familiar with and many of us tend to focus on will be the famous g i f, p, g, g PAC. And also to obtain mine from these three images here, if you can see the different bite size as you move from the left to the right, you can see that with the sizes becoming smaller, the quality of an image suffers. He is where image manipulation comes in. So image manipulation is a technique which is only used to remove noise. Now, here noise shouldn't be mistaken for people on what you call honking a car, shouting or people dropping things. Noise here refers to unwanted information in the image. So noise, removal, smoothing, sharpening, contrast, enhancement, changing the appearance of the image, etc. are all called image manipulation. It's called also as noise reduction. So if you look at the image on the left, you can see that it has a like a pepper approach, right? Like all small, small dot. Now those are pixels that shouldn't be there because it blurs the original image. So by performing image manipulation on noise reduction, some people see you smooth the image and that is how you get the output. And you're right. Now, of course, the output that we got early on isn't that sharp because when you perform on noise removal or noise reduction, you tend to blur the pixels because you're trying to remove the unwanted noise in the image. And because of that, certain times of motivation, you need to perform. Another method called sharpening or sharpening enhances the pixel to make it more sharper. And you can see now that the image on your right looks a bit more sharper compared to the image that you saw in the previous slide. Now from the earlier initiative. So in the earliest, you all would have noticed that some of the edges in the image look a bit shocked. For some people, that can be a bit annoying. That's why a method called smoothing comes into play though when we perform the method smoothing, you can see from the image on the right hand side here, it's a bit more smooth in its finishing and becomes much more pleasing to the eyes. Like this slide you can see on the left and compare it with your right image. You can see that the right image is a bit more lesser in its contrast. Now, this is what we call a contrast enhancement approach. And a contrast enhancement approach tend to even not the contrast levels in an image so as to ensure that the image doesn't have one part of the image. Very strong, high contrast whereby another part of the image has a very low and weak contrast. So a contrast enhancement tend to even need out so that you have a very nice, well balanced contrast throughout the image. Now, I think this light speaks for itself. You have one image on the left hand side full of colours and you have the name issue ads that no one kind of to which is greyscale. Now, of course, this is what we call changing the image appearance. So in order for us to get a greyscale, of course we need to manipulate the IGP values. Not another policy processing that is very, very important. It, of course, is detection, image segmentation. These are techniques that you need to understand underlying theory because these are some useful algorithms that we will tend to use in steps towards image analysis, computer vision, not easy section, image segmentation. Those are the two famous techniques or methods that we tend to use in order for us to get more information out of the image for further processing. We will also look at simple pixel. Simple pixel is an increasingly popular intermediate representation. Fewer data points. Less work. And it tends to help very, very much with the segmentation and it greatly preserves the quality of the image moving forward. Of course, finding geometric objects. We will tend to use the half transform in order for us to extract. There is the respective object that we really want. This example here, of course, is a person's eye retina. Now we are also going to focus on spatial domain methods or operating that are adding to the image point operation and area operations. We're going to view frequency domain methods in one lecture. And yes, I did say frequency domain. So we're going to take an image, compute the power spectrum on the image, processes power spectrum, and reconstruct an E new image from the modified power spectrum. So we need to understand the fundamentals and the theory behind this and how it's performed. So it's going to be fun. Now with every images. This also matters that we need to change its geometric representation to a geometric operation, manipulating the restructure and aligning the image, not just the pixel values, but also its orientation. So that means we are going to rotate, translates creating a fine transformation in order for us to change the representation of the entire image. Now let's put it some application that is built on all the techniques that we're going to learn in image processing. So one of the famous one would be the content based image, which, you know, sample is that you have a very big database with thousands and millions of images and you want to find only one image. In this example here, a horse. So of course you need to process it well in order for you to to kind of go through all of the images in the big dataset, it only extract out images that look like a horse. So that's where image processing comes into play. Now painterly rendering is another example application that is built on image processing techniques. It processed the image to give a that feel in the image to reproduce a particular artist movement stop Impressionism. Now, of course, the input of it will be an image, but the output of it from the program will generate a painting like image, something that you would see when an artist draws onto a canvas. But here are doing this digitally. Now another famous application is interactive tools and compositing. Now, of course, try to imagine that you have two separate images and you want to overlay that information from those three images into one output image. And this is an example here. So you have a scenery and Bill Gates, you kind of segment out the relevant information both, and you use that in operation to get the silhouette image which is showing in black and white. And then after that you superimpose one over the other and you get the resulting image, which is at the bottom. So this is another benefit of sort of using image processing techniques. Now lectures will cover the truth side of things. Now, in order for us to visualise back then on how to implement that, we be using the MATLAB image processing toolbox to perform several practical implementation of maturity. Cover the lecture. Don't worry, if you're not an expert, you may let each lap session. We will have a very detailed documentation that will guide you step by step. Now let's look at assessment for image processing. This is a very important element for this module. No introduction due for this assessment is broken up into two parts. One is the coursework, and yet no one is exempt. Now the cost part will cover 2000 would report plus programming application. And of course, I would like to see your critical thinking being on show through the explanation and evaluation of the results. Okay. Now, this will carry a weight of 40%. 60% will come from a one hour exam whereby you will have to answer all three questions. So let's look at what we have covered in today's lecture. We started off by looking at what image processing is and also the module content. And we got a feel of what digital images is and also the many, many different techniques that we can use to manipulate the images for a better outcome. Now you have any questions? Please feel free to reach out to me either via email or teams, or even approach me in a lecture or in the next session, or even visit my office in maybe 71 and we can have a chitchat on your questions. And with that brings us to the end of our first lecture. Now, next week, we'll be covering digital images and point processing. To then take everyone, Stacey. And I'll see you soon. Cheers.
