SPEAKER 0
Hi, Ron. Welcome to action. The image processing. In our last lecture, we're going to look at the finale of this module and we're going to do a big revision of what we've covered in the last few weeks. Let's begin. Now, if all of you can remember our first lecture where I introduced a white war problem. Today we're going to revisit the way what problem with all of us having learned the many different techniques of processing. We also identify what we can learn and what to expect in the upcoming exam. Let's begin with the revisit of a whiteboard problem. Remember this line from our first lecture? Now let's break it down. In order for us to get to the very end of our solution. Now what will problem begins? You one where each detection is a plane. It is chief with a variation on the canny operator. This is then followed by step two, which is line finding not to half transform. One detecting new horizontal and one new vertical is a play keep only the five longest horizontal and vertical lines. The result from step two will give us the input to step three, which is to detect the white body here fine quadrilateral above threshold size with neighbouring edges at 90 degrees and opposite sides, or that the same pick the one which lies over the most edges. We then visit that form, which is distortion correction here. We require the use of geometric transformation on the image. In step five, the final step we perform Illumination Correction, where we need to enhance the high frequencies of the radio frequency domain. Processing is one we in spatial low mean. We approximate the low frequency component by smoothing subtracts move image from original to approximate high frequency and at mean of low frequency image to high frequency image to make it bright enough therefore producing the finale image to our whiteboard problem. So let's walk down memory lane with a quick rewind on what we have learned in the past few weeks. We started our image processing journey by looking at image formation and acquisition background materials such as camera and bias patterns. What did you find? We now have a better understanding of the basic terminology used, such as sampling and quantisation. At the start we got to know a little image processing such as reassembling, resizing and re optimisation. We then got to know different coloured faces such as RGV. He chose me LLB to name a few. We also got to know that image pre-processing. Choosing a colour space is a key step in practical application, but not really IP. We also looked at point transfer gain. By contrast, chi gamma correction simpler methods but useful. We then proceeded to better understand about spatial filtering. Now we know how convolution works. And why is it the key? We also know that noise removal comes in many forms, such as mean Gaussian filtering enhancement in the form of on sheet masking and applying filtering and detection in the form of Robert Sobel, Ma Heat, Death and Kane. We also looked at nonlinear filtering in the form of median and is trumping diffusion and material filtering. Linear nonlinear filters are at the heart of the image processing toolbox. We also looked at trash holding and binary images. We now understand what to and you need model trash loading method. We also know the use and purpose of connected components and morphology, such as erosion and dilation. Next, we looked at histogram methods. We now have a better understanding of histogram equalisation. How to compare images using Histogram intersection in histogram ratio. We now also understand an application famously known as image retrieval. We then proceeded to understand frequency domain, an overview, broad structure of frequency, domain methods, something you need to be aware of. We then looked at interactive methods and composition. Now we know how to identify the shape of an object by using like Why are you blending of different images by incorporating distance and from. We didn't do that compression, which is becoming increasingly important in today's day and age with the high quality of images we produce. We now have a bit than a standing of the different types of redundancy. Coding, spatial, psycho, visual. We now know for the structure of compression systems, components and complete schemes in the form of Hofmann coding in Japan. We also exploit segmentation and line finding solutions. Segmentation techniques such as region grouping, split in merge and watershed. We now know that line finding can be performed with great effect. Using have transform. We ended our journey in image processing by looking at geometric transport, but not really in detail. Nevertheless, it presents a set of tools that can be used to create image processing pipelines. Time for introduction to Image processing. Indeed. Now let's visit the model OEM's once more. These modules aim to introduce the fundamentals of digital image processing in the form of theory and practical. It'll be assessed by exam on how the technique works and what do they do. Another aim of this module also is to gain practical experience in writing programmes to manipulate digital images. These will be assessed by coursework. However, there'll be no coding the exam. The final aim of this module is to lay the foundation for studying one's topic with related fields such as computer vision and computer graphics. In your third year, perhaps. Now let's look and your image processing there. It will be a one hour exam comprising of three questions whereby you had to answer all of them. Questions will focus on image processing methods, asking you questions such as What do you do? How do you work when the appropriate question will be structured to test you in terms of knowledge comprehension? Application questions are loosely structured. Topic area will be indicated. Make sure to read it, answer the question, and take the number of marks available into account when writing your answer. In summary, in today's lecture, we revisit the White BLOCK problem, applying all of our newfound knowledge and wisdom on the many different image processing techniques. We then walk down memory lane to get a better understanding of what we have learned. And we ended today's lecture by looking at what to expect in your upcoming exams. As always, if you have any questions, you know where to find. That's all, folks. With that brings us to the end to our final lecture for Introduction to Image Processing. How many of you have given a tremendous insight into the magical world of image processing till we meet again? Peak safe and all the best for the upcoming exam. Cheers.
